# News Feed Recommender System

This repo serves as a demo to demonstrate how to build a news feed collaborative filtering recommender system using Implicit, implemented topic modeling using Gensim, and autp tag news feed using Random Forest Classifier. 

## News Recommender System

* See `demo-geospatial-analysis.ipynb`
* Collaborative filtering approach is commonly used to recommend item to users based on user-item interaction. In particular, Alternating Leaset Square (ALS) has proven to achieve very goood model performance on implicit data, ie. users' behaviour to items without rating or specific action such as like or dislike, such as the number of times a user plays a song. [Implicit](https://github.com/benfred/implicit) library provides a fast Cython implementation to speedup ALS in deployment. It also has very nice built in functions for recommendations and similar items. This notebook demonstrates the implemnetation of ALS to build a news recommender system based on how a user' interact with news feed.

## Topic Modeling for News Feed

* See `demo-lda.ipynb`
*  Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) is a generative model which is commonly used in topic modeling. In LDA, we assume that each document is generated by a mixtures of latent topics, and each topic has probabilities of generating various words. In our exmaple, a news feed can be viewed as a mixture of various latent topics. Our goal is to find word counts of top words appeared in each news feed, and predict topics which are most likely to generate this news feed according to the word count vector. This notebook demonstrates how to implement LDA topic modeling for news text data using [Gensim](https://radimrehurek.com/gensim/index.html). Since we have ground truth for the news topics, we can evaluate the LDA model. The trained model achieves 76.7% accuracy.


## Auto Tagging of News Feed

* See `demo-tagging.ipynb`
* This notebook demonstrates how to preprocess text data of news feed and train Random Forest Classifier to auto tag news feed into categories such as sports, politics. To preprocess chinese text data, standard NLP techiniques (similar to english language) such as stopword removal, TF-IDF transformation are used. We have also implemented word segmentation for chinese words using [Jieba](https://github.com/fxsjy/jieba) (a fast Python implementation of Chinese text segmentation). We then train a Random Forest Classifier on the numeric represnetation of the news feed. The model achieves 99.6% accuracy on a test set.